Documentation : Add a language (#362)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/development/internationalization/add-a-language.md

---
title: Add a language
aliases:
  - /1.7/development/add_a_language
  - /1.7/development/add-a-language
---

> # Add a language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Make a new language available to be used in the Back Office
```

Author: :ok_hand:

Author: :ok_hand:

> Before adding a language in Prestashop, you must check if the language is available in [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/prestashop-official).

Reviewer: We should explain what to do if the language cannot be found on crowdin. Maybe redirect to Crowdin and say "you must contact prestashop content team to add this language to the list" ?

Author: I ask to Louise

Author: :ok_hand:

Author: :ok_hand:

After this prerequisite, adding a language in PrestaShop has three steps :

> * Update JSON files in Prestashop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update required JSON configuration files in the Prestashop project
```

Author: :ok_hand:

> * ...

Reviewer: Missing step 😄 ?

Author: Failed ;) :ok_hand:

> * Update i18n.prestashop.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Trigger the update of API in charge of the languages downloadable packets (i18n.prestashop.com)
```

Author: :ok_hand:

  
## Update JSON files in Prestashop

> In PrestaShop, there are two files involved in process of languages, there are :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In PrestaShop, two JSON control the processing of languages :
```

Author: :ok_hand:

Author: :ok_hand:

* app/Resources/all_languages.json
* app/Resources/legacy-to-standard-locales.json
  
The first one is used for listing languages supported by PrestaShop in back-office.
The second one is used for migrating locales from old versions to 1.7.

> ### app/Resources/all_languages.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to update app/Resources/all_languages.json
```

> In this file, you need to add a new item in the JSON.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, you need to add a new item in the JSON.
```

Not necessary. If you want to skip an additional line, just put a blank line 🤔 I think it works ?

Author: :ok_hand:

The key is the ISO Code, based on the ISO-619-1 standard ([see an unofficial list here][iso-619-1]).
The item is filled with key/values relative to the localization :

* `name` : Name
* `iso_code` : ISO code (2 characters)
* `date_format_lite` : Date format (only date)
* `date_format_full` : Date format (with hours & minutes)
* `is_rtl` : Right to Left Language

> * `language_code` :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `language_code` : Language code
```

* `locale` : ISO code (5 characters)

This is a sample : 
```json
  "bz": {
    "name": "Brezhoneg (Breton)",
    "iso_code": "bz",
    "date_format_lite": "Y-m-d",
    "date_format_full": "Y-m-d H:i:s",
    "is_rtl": "0",
    "language_code": "bz",
    "locale": "br-FR"
  },
```

> ### app/Resources/legacy-to-standard-locales.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to update app/Resources/legacy-to-standard-locales.json
```

Author: :ok_hand:

> In this file, you need to add a key/value.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, you need to add a key/value.
```

The key is the ISO code, based on the ISO-619-1 standard ([see an unofficial list here][iso-619-1]).<br />
The value is the locale.

> ## Update i18n.prestashop.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to trigger the content update on PrestaShop Languages Localisation Packages i18n.prestashop.com ?
```

Author: :ok_hand:

Finally, we need to update i18n.prestashop.com.
Why ? Because this domain stores translations files which are used on the page "Improve > International > Translations" for adding or updating languages. 

> <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: :ok_hand:

> This domain is linked by continuous integration to  the [PrestaShop/TranslationFiles repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/TranslationFiles/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This web service update is controlled by the [PrestaShop/TranslationFiles repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/TranslationFiles/).
```

Author: :ok_hand:

> For listing languages, Prestashop use the file `available_languages.json` of the current version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of available languages is controlled by the file `available_languages.json` on the latest version according to the git repository.
```

Author: :ok_hand:

> The file update consists to add a key/value : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must submit a PR in which you add a key/value : 
```

Author: :ok_hand:
